feat: Add best practices to README (#58)
vtex-sites/base.store: README.md

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/vtex/faststore">
    <img alt="Store Framework" src="https://emoji.slack-edge.com/T02BCPD0X/store-framework/7547b127e929c376.png" width="75" />
  </a>
</p>
<h1 align="center">

>   A starter powered by FastStore and Gatsby

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  A starter powered by Faststore and Gatsby
```

</h1> 

> Kick-off your store with this boilerplate. This starter ships with the main FastStore configuration files you might need to get up and running blazing fast with the blazing-fast store for React. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kickoff your store with this boilerplate. This starter ships with the main Faststore configuration files you might need to get up and running blazing fast with the blazing-fast store for React. 
```

    ```shell
    # Clone this repo into your machine
    npx degit vtex-sites/base.store awesome.store
    ```

1.  **Install dependencies**

    Install dependencies with yarn

    ```shell
    cd awesome.store/
    yarn
    ```

2.  **Setup env vars**

    Choose the ecommerce platform provider of your choice in the `vtex.env` file and set the corresponding options. For instance, to connect to the VTEX platform on the store `fashioneurope`:

    ```
    GATSBY_STORE_ID=fashioneurope
    GATSBY_VTEX_ENVIRONMENT=vtexcommercestable

>     GATSBY_VTEX_IO_WORKSPACE=master

Reviewer 2: What do you think about explaining each env var? For example, GATSBY_STORE_ID is the store accounts name on VTEX.

Reviewer: I believe it's not necessary because the env name is explicit. A good code is one that doesn't need comments to be understood, this is a case in point.

Author: It's written before the example that this works for  fahsioneurope at the stable environment. Is this enough?

13. **`README.md`**: A text file containing useful reference information about your project.

> 14. **`__generated__`**: Where TypeScript typings are generated for your GraphQL queries. You can use these files for strongly typing your App

Author: I think we have removed all of them, right?

18. **`gatsby-browser.js`**: Lets you respond to Gatsby-specific events within the browser, and wrap your page components in additional global components. The Gatsby Browser API gives you many options for interacting with the client-side of Gatsby. More info at: https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/reference/config-files/gatsby-browser/

19. **`gatsby-ssr.js`**: Lets you respond to Gatsby-specific events during SSG and SSR, and wrap your page components in additional global components. More info at: https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/reference/config-files/gatsby-ssr/

20. **`lighthouserc.js`**: Configures [Google Lighthouse CI](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/lighthouse-ci). This is where you can turn on/off lighthouse assertions to be used by Lighthouse CI Bot/hook

21. **`pull_request_template.md`**: Template used when creating your Pull Requests
    
22. **`renovate.json`**: Renovate configuratio file to keep your store always fresh with FastStore's latest versions

23. **`.prettierignore`**: Ignore listed files when applying prettier rules

24. **`.eslitignore`**: Ignore listed files when applying eslint rules

## 💻 Code Structure

> All code is inside the `src` folder. The code is split into folders that implement an MVC like architecture.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All code is inside the `src` folder. The code is split into folders that implement an MVC-like architecture.
```

> The `controller` is inside the `src/sdk` folder. This is where you will find most logic for the application. This folder contains hooks for adding items to cart, making graphql queries, resizing images, etc. If you eed to write a custom business logic this is probably the place to put this logic.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `controller` is inside the `src/sdk` folder. This is where you will find most logic for the application. This folder contains hooks for adding items to cart, making graphql queries, resizing images, etc. If you need to write a custom business logic this is probably the place to put this logic.
```

> The `views` are written in the `src/components` folder and are subdivided into domain specific components. Cart related items are inside the `src/components/cart` folder. Search and Product related components like facets, product summary and search results are on their respective folders. Basic building blocks components are inside the UI folder. Components like button, checkbox and modal are good candidates for the UI folder. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `views` are written in the `src/components` folder and are subdivided into domain-specific components. Cart related items are inside the `src/components/cart` folder. Search and Product related components like facets, product summary, and search results are in their respective folders. Basic building blocks components are inside the UI folder. Components like button, checkbox, and modal are good candidates for the UI folder. 
```

Section components are those components that occupy a whole slice on the webpage and are desirable to be changed by a CMS. Section components are Product Gallery, Carousel, Shelf and Product description.

The `model`, in a website, is where the data fetching occurs. Since this project uses Jamstack, a crucial design decision was made to explicitly split where Static and Dynamic data are fetched. The files inside the `src/pages` folder use [Gatsby's File System Route API](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/reference/routing/file-system-route-api/) to declare routes and fetch static data. The files inside the `src/views` folder revalidate and enrich static data with dynamic attributes.

To summarize:

> 1. `src/pages`: Routes are declared and static data is fetched

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. `src/pages`: Routes are declared and static data is fetched.
```

> 2. `src/views`: Receives static data from `src/pages`, enrich this data with dynamic attributes and render section components along with SEO tags.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. `src/views`: Receives static data from `src/pages`, enriches this data with dynamic attributes, and render section components along with SEO tags.
```

> 3. `src/components/sections`: Receive necessary data and use domain specific components (cart/product/search/ui) for rendering a slice on the web page.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. `src/components/sections`: Receives necessary data and use domain-specific components (cart/product/search/ui) for rendering a slice on the web page.
```

## ✏️ Adding Components

> What better than an example for learning the best practices while adding components? On this example we will add a button component. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
What better than an example for learning the best practices while adding components? In this example, we will add a button component. 
```

> Components live on the `src/components` folder. Each component may have, at most, 3 files; a component file, an export file, and a styling file.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Components live on the `src/components` folder. Each component may have, at most, 3 files: a component file, an export file, and a styling file.
```

First, let's create a folder and the files. 

```sh
mkdir src/components/ui/Button
touch src/components/ui/Button/Button.tsx
touch src/components/ui/Button/index.tsx
```

> The `index.tsx` is just an export file, so it's content is really simple with:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `index.tsx` is just an export file, so its content is simple:
```

```tsx
export { default } from './Button'
```

The real thing happens on `Button.tsx`. On this file let's define the component like:

```tsx
import React from 'react'

interface Props {}

function Button (props: Props) {
  return <button {...props} />
}

export default Button
```

> And, that's it! Now you have a working button that you can use anywhere on your project. FastStore, however, brings a handy library called `@vtex/store-ui` with builtin components to help you speed up your development. To use it, just change `Button.tsx` to:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
And, that's it! Now you have a working button that you can use anywhere on your project. FastStore, however, brings a handy library called `@vtex/store-ui` with built-in components to help you speed up your development. To use it, just change `Button.tsx` to:
```

```tsx
import React from 'react'
import { Button as UIButton } from '@vtex/store-ui'
import type { ButtonProps } from '@vtex/store-ui'

interface Props extends ButtonProps {}

function Button (props: Props) {
  return <UIButton {...props} />
}

export default Button
```

> Now, our Button component is powered by Store UI. However, if you try to use this on your app you will see that the button is lacking styles. To add styles, we will use CSS modules because it allow us to target data attributes. On your terminal, type:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now, your Button component is powered by Store UI. However, if you try to use this on your app you will see that the button is lacking styles. To add styles, we will use CSS modules because they allow us to target data attributes. On your terminal, type:
```

```sh
touch src/components/ui/Button/Button.module.css
```

Now, on `Button.module.css`:
```css
[data-store-button]: {
  @apply p-0 bg-primary-100;
}
```

> The `@apply` directive exists because we are using [Tailwind css](https://tailwindcss.com/). To learn more about tailwind, [see their docs](https://tailwindcss.com/docs). To know more about our best practices on using tailwid, see the `Styling Components` section.

Reviewer 3: It would be nice to have a link to the mentioned section, I believe this works:
```suggestion
The `@apply` directive exists because we are using [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/). To learn more about tailwind, [see their docs](https://tailwindcss.com/docs). To know more about our best practices on using tailwind, see the [Styling Components](#%EF%B8%8F-styling-components) section.
```

> This `data-store-button` is a css data attribute selector. To know which selectors are available, check [store-ui docs](https://storeui.netlify.app/)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This `data-store-button` is a CSS data attribute selector. To know which selectors are available, check [store-ui docs](https://storeui.netlify.app/).
```

Now, open `Button.tsx` and import this CSS with:
```tsx
import React from 'react'
import { Button as UIButton } from '@vtex/store-ui'
import type { ButtonProps } from '@vtex/store-ui'

import './Button.module.css'

interface Props extends ButtonProps {}

function Button (props: Props) {
  return <UIButton {...props} />
}

export default Button
```

> For most components you would stop here. However, buttons can have different variants. For instance, suppose you want to have a button component with primary and muted variants. To add variants to the component, you can, on `Button.tsx`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For most components, you would stop here. However, buttons can have different variants. For instance, suppose you want to have a button component with primary and muted variants. To add variants to the component, update `Button.tsx`:
```

```tsx
import React from 'react'
import { Button as UIButton } from '@vtex/store-ui'
import type { ButtonProps } from '@vtex/store-ui'

import './Button.module.css'

interface Props extends ButtonProps {
  variant: 'muted' | 'primary'
}

function Button ({variant, ...props}: Props) {
  return <UIButton className={variant} {...props} />
}

export default Button
```

> and than, on `Button.module.css`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and then, on `Button.module.css`:
```

```css
.primary [data-store-button]: {
  @apply p-0 bg-primary-100;
}

.muted [data-store-button]: {
  @apply p-0 bg-muted-100;
}
```

Now we have a styled Button component that accepts different variants!! 🎉

The aforementioned guide works well for UI components. However, sections are more complex and usually don't have variants, since they usually serve a single responsibility in the page. For sections, you can use tailwind natively like:

```tsx
// components/sections/MySection/MySection.tsx
...
function MySection {
  return (
    <>
      <div className="p-2 flex items-center">
        <p className="h-4 p-5 mx-2">Hello World</p>
        <Button variant="muted">
      </div>
    </>
  )
}
...
```

## 🖊️ Styling Components

> This starter uses [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) for styling. If you want, you can remove it and use other solutions. Both Gatsby and Store UI support many different CSS frameworks, like [emotion](https://emotion.sh/docs/introduction), [stitches](https://stitches.dev/docs/introduction) or even no CSS framework at all. 

Reviewer 3: Is there something like a list of which CSS frameworks Gatsby supports?

Author: Nice! Just added the framework list link

This guide covers best practices and patterns to use when styling with Tailwind.

> Tailwind is a utility-first CSS framework. The goal of this starter is to make it possible for developers to use Tailwind themes to change the look of the store. To accomplish this, a few things needs to be respected:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Tailwind is a utility-first CSS framework. The goal of this starter is to make it possible for developers to use Tailwind themes to change the look of the store. To accomplish this, a few things need to be respected:
```

> 1. Do never use hard coded colors/padings/spacings etc. e.g.: `px-[10px], bg-[#fff]`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Do never use hard coded colors/padings/spacings etc, e.g., `px-[10px]`, `bg-[#fff]`.
```

Reviewer 3: I think it would be good to add what they are supposed to do instead (use aliases?)

> 2. Do never use named colors, but use alias colors instead: e.g. `bg-primary` instead of `bg-blue`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Do never use named colors, but use alias colors instead, e.g., `bg-primary` instead of `bg-blue`.
```

> > **Note**: CSS modules generate extra classes in your final CSS sheet. Use them with caution.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> :warning: CSS modules generate extra classes in your final CSS sheet. Use them with caution.
```

## 🎓 Learning the Frameworks

> Looking for more guidance? Full documentation for FastStore lives [on thir github](https://github.com/vtex/faststore). Also, for learning Gatsby, take a look at the [Gatsby Website](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/). They have plenty of tutorials and examples in there.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Looking for more guidance? Full documentation for FastStore lives [on this GitHub repository](https://github.com/vtex/faststore). Also, for learning Gatsby, take a look at the [Gatsby Website](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/), they have plenty of tutorials and examples in there.
```

## ⚡ Performance & QA

> This project has strict performance budgets. Right out of the box, this project performs around 95 on Google's Page Speed Insights website, that usually is way more strict than your laptop's chrome lighthouse. Every time you commit into the repository, our QA bots will run and evaluate your code quality. We recommend you NEVER put in production a code that breaks any of the bots. If a bot breaks and still you need to put the code into production, change the bot config (`lighthouserc.js`, `cypress.json`) to make it pass and merge. This way you ensure your website will keep performing well during the years to come

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This project has strict performance budgets. Right out of the box, this project performs around 95 on Google's Page Speed Insights website, which usually is way more strict than your laptop's chrome lighthouse. Every time you commit to the repository, our QA bots will run and evaluate your code quality. We recommend you NEVER put in production a code that breaks any of the bots. If a bot breaks and still you need to put the code into production, change the bot config (`lighthouserc.js`, `cypress.json`) to make it pass and merge. This way you ensure your website will keep performing well during the years to come.
```

13. **`README.md`**: A text file containing useful reference information about your project.

14. **`__generated__`**: Where TypeScript typings are generated for your GraphQL queries. You can use these files for strongly typing your App

15. **`babel.config.js`**: [Babel configurations](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/configuration#babelrcjson) for you app. This is where you can change the targeted browsers.

> 16. **`cypress`**: End to End(e2e) tests using Cypress. Most of the cenarios are covered in here. Add your custom flows to avoid regressions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
16. **`cypress`**: End to End(e2e) tests using Cypress. Most of the scenarios are covered here. Add your custom flows to avoid regressions
```

17. **`cypress.json`**: [Cypress configuration file](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/references/configuration)

18. **`gatsby-browser.js`**: Lets you respond to Gatsby-specific events within the browser, and wrap your page components in additional global components. The Gatsby Browser API gives you many options for interacting with the client-side of Gatsby. More info at: https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/reference/config-files/gatsby-browser/

19. **`gatsby-ssr.js`**: Lets you respond to Gatsby-specific events during SSG and SSR, and wrap your page components in additional global components. More info at: https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/reference/config-files/gatsby-ssr/

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

20. **`lighthouserc.js`**: Configures [Google Lighthouse CI](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/lighthouse-ci). This is where you can turn on/off lighthouse assertions to be used by Lighthouse CI Bot/hook

21. **`pull_request_template.md`**: Template used when creating your Pull Requests
    

> 22. **`renovate.json`**: Renovate configuration file to keep your store always fresh with FastStore's latest versions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
22. **`renovate.json`**: Renovate configuration file to keep your store always fresh with Faststore's latest versions
```

1. `src/pages`: Routes are declared and static data is fetched.
2. `src/views`: Receives static data from `src/pages`, enriches this data with dynamic attributes, and render section components along with SEO tags.
3. `src/components/sections`: Receives necessary data and use domain-specific components (cart/product/search/ui) for rendering a slice on the web page.

## ✏️ Adding Components

What better than an example for learning the best practices while adding components? In this example, we will add a button component. 
Components live on the `src/components` folder. Each component may have, at most, 3 files: a component file, an export file, and a styling file.
First, let's create a folder and the files. 

```sh
mkdir src/components/ui/Button
touch src/components/ui/Button/Button.tsx
touch src/components/ui/Button/index.tsx
```

The `index.tsx` is just an export file, so its content is simple:

```tsx
export { default } from './Button'
```

The real thing happens on `Button.tsx`. On this file let's define the component like:

```tsx
import React from 'react'

interface Props {}

function Button (props: Props) {
  return <button {...props} />
}

export default Button
```

> And, that's it! Now you have a working button that you can use anywhere on your project. FastStore, however, brings a handy library called `@vtex/store-ui` with built-in components to help you speed up your development. To use it, just change `Button.tsx` to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And, that's it! Now you have a working button that you can use anywhere on your project. Faststore, however, brings a handy library called `@vtex/store-ui` with built-in components to help you speed up your development. To use it, just change `Button.tsx` to:
```

Now, open `Button.tsx` and import this CSS with:
```tsx
import React from 'react'
import { Button as UIButton } from '@vtex/store-ui'
import type { ButtonProps } from '@vtex/store-ui'

import './Button.module.css'

interface Props extends ButtonProps {}

function Button (props: Props) {
  return <UIButton {...props} />
}

export default Button
```

For most components, you would stop here. However, buttons can have different variants. For instance, suppose you want to have a button component with primary and muted variants. To add variants to the component, update `Button.tsx`:
```tsx
import React from 'react'
import { Button as UIButton } from '@vtex/store-ui'
import type { ButtonProps } from '@vtex/store-ui'

import './Button.module.css'

interface Props extends ButtonProps {
  variant: 'muted' | 'primary'
}

function Button ({variant, ...props}: Props) {
  return <UIButton className={variant} {...props} />
}

export default Button
```

and then, on `Button.module.css`:
```css
.primary [data-store-button]: {
  @apply p-0 bg-primary-100;
}

.muted [data-store-button]: {
  @apply p-0 bg-muted-100;
}
```

Now we have a styled Button component that accepts different variants!! 🎉

> The aforementioned guide works well for UI components. However, sections are more complex and usually don't have variants, since they usually serve a single responsibility in the page. For sections, you can use tailwind natively like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The aforementioned guide works well for UI components. However, sections are more complex and usually don't have variants, since they usually serve a single responsibility on the page. For sections, you can use tailwind natively like:
```

```tsx
// components/sections/MySection/MySection.tsx
...
function MySection {
  return (
    <>
      <div className="p-2 flex items-center">
        <p className="h-4 p-5 mx-2">Hello World</p>
        <Button variant="muted">
      </div>
    </>
  )
}
...
```

## 🖊️ Styling Components

> This starter uses [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) for styling. If you want, you can remove it and use other solutions. Both Gatsby and Store UI support many different CSS frameworks, like [emotion](https://emotion.sh/docs/introduction), [stitches](https://stitches.dev/docs/introduction) or even no CSS framework at all. 

Author: Maybe?

```suggestion
This starter uses [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) for styling. If you want, you can remove it and use other solutions. Both Gatsby and Store UI support many different CSS frameworks, like [emotion](https://emotion.sh/docs/introduction), [stitches](https://stitches.dev/docs/introduction) or even no CSS framework at all. Check the supported frameworks at [the Gatsby website](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/how-to/styling/built-in-css/#other-css-options)
```

This guide covers best practices and patterns to use when styling with Tailwind.

Tailwind is a utility-first CSS framework. The goal of this starter is to make it possible for developers to use Tailwind themes to change the look of the store. To accomplish this, a few things need to be respected:

1. Do never use hard coded colors/padings/spacings etc, e.g., `px-[10px]`, `bg-[#fff]`.
2. Do never use named colors, but use alias colors instead, e.g., `bg-primary` instead of `bg-blue`.

> :warning: CSS modules generate extra classes in your final CSS sheet. Use them with caution.

## 🎓 Learning the Frameworks

> Looking for more guidance? Full documentation for FastStore lives [on this GitHub repository](https://github.com/vtex/faststore). Also, for learning Gatsby, take a look at the [Gatsby Website](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/), they have plenty of tutorials and examples in there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Looking for more guidance? Full documentation for Faststore lives [on this GitHub repository](https://github.com/vtex/faststore). Also, for learning Gatsby, take a look at the [Gatsby Website](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/), they have plenty of tutorials and examples in there.
```
